
    THE HERO

    BY ELAINE WILBER

    _Willy was undoubtedly a hero. The difficulty lies in deciding
    which side he was on...._


[Illustration: __Illustrated by Paul Orban__]


Two months after the landing, Ship UXB-69311 was rigged out with most
things needed to make life bearable, if not interesting, for the crew.
Perched on the manicured, blue-green sod of the planet Engraham, its
inner parts were transformed and refitted for the many months of the
Exploration. No effort and no flight of imagination had been spared to
make the ship resemble more a country club than a barracks. With the
permission of Colonel Mondrain, the crew’s bunkroom had been completely
rearranged, and a segment thereof made into a quietly elegant bar. Plans
for this eventual rejuvenation had been fomenting throughout the very
tiresome and very monotonous journey.

When they first landed, the natives fled, and thus it was easy to
liberate furnishings from the adjacent village. When the inhabitants
returned, after the purposes of the visiting Earthman were acknowledged
to be harmless, they proved to be too courteous to carp about a few
missing articles.

The chairs, of a very advanced design and most comfortable, were made of
a light and durable metal alloy thus far unknown to Earth. The bar
(which was probably not its purpose on Engraham, no one knew or cared
what its function had been) was of a design so futuristic that it would
have turned a modern artist mad. The utensils, also liberated, were
unbelievably delicate, yet strong and easy to wash. At first, since the
Earth had not intended the Exploration to resemble the type that
Texas-stationed servicemen like to run in Matamoros, there was nothing
to drink in the utensils. But hardly six weeks had passed before the
first hero of the Exploration, a man named O’Connors, discovered a
palatable fruit growing on nearby bushes. By means of a system of
improvised pipes (also liberated) it was no time at all before tasty
beverages, somewhat strident but quite effective, were being run off and
consumed in quantities. The machine known as O’Connors Joy-Juicer was
concealed behind the bar, and all that was ever seen on the bar when
Colonel Mondrain or the Doctors were around was an innocuous fruit
juice.

The Earth Command had stocked the ship with reading material, most of it
of a disgustingly educational nature, in photostatic cards: and the
second hero of the Exploration was a man named Kosalowsky, who
discovered in the psychology sections the works of Freud and
Krafft-Ebing. After this discovery, a few interesting discussions arose.

After these changes had been made, there was very little to do.

The Earth Command had assumed that the natives of Engraham would resent
the Explorations (most planets did), and so had sent along the crew of
thirty men for protection. All had labored mightily to become part of
this special crew, chosen for endurance and known war-like qualities.
For once they got back to Earth, all were slated to be mustered out of
service immediately, decorated to the ears, and awarded full, life-time
pensions. Many already had contracts to appear on television and one
man, Blunt, hinted at a long term Hollywood contract.

But once they got there, there was little to do after all. A guard was
posted; instruments were checked; and, although the necessity seemed
slight, the ship was kept primed for instantaneous emergency take-off.
On the day corresponding to Earth’s Saturday, the ship was G. I.’d from
stem to stern. The maintenance crew made sure that no parts deteriorated
or got liberated by enterprising natives. But the natives were not an
inventive race. It was discovered by the Doctors (Anker, Frank, Pelham
and Flandeau) that the natives literally did not know how to steal. They
were backward. Dr. Flandeau, who was making great strides with the
language, reported that there was some evidence that the Engrahamites
had once possessed this skill, along with murder, mayhem, bad faith, and
politics, but had lost it, through a deterioration of the species.

Thus, once the ship had been transformed into a place worthy of human
dwelling, and the beverage question had been solved, and utter,
imbecilic boredom circumvented by the timely discoveries of Freud and
Krafft-Ebing, the men found time hanging heavily on their hands; and the
more the doctors discovered about the Engrahamites, the more dismal the
situation became. The doctors, growing more and more fascinated by their
tasks, left the ship bright and early each day, returning around
nightfall to reduce their growing stacks of data to points of Earthly
relevance. The Colonel was also out most of the time. He paid many
social calls on the natives, who, being courteous, received him, and was
often returned at night in a chauffeured native Hop-Hop. Life in the
bunkroom became a sullen round of poker, reading of Krafft-Ebing, and
gab: and Earth currency changed hands daily in the never-ending crap
game.

For there was one great lack in their lives. This lack, and the
inability to do anything about it, absorbed many hours of conversation.
At first, complaints only occurred at intervals; but as weeks passed,
the lamentations became so fervent, so constant, and so heart-rending,
that Dr. Flandeau observed to Dr. Frank that more stirring passages had
not been made since the Jeremiad. For Dr. Flandeau, although aging, was
in his off hours a poet, and a Frenchman always.

Dr. Frank said, "Yes, well, poor bastards."

At first, nostalgically, the crew harked back to happier times on Earth.
Soon not one young lady of their collective acquaintance had escaped the
most minute analysis. They were young men—the oldest, Blunt, was only
twenty-six—and several of them had married young, greatly limiting their
activities so that even their cumulative memories could not last
forever. After several weeks, repetition began to set in. Once all
successes had been lovingly remembered, down to the last, exquisite
detail, they began recalling their failures. The master strategist, the
unofficial referee of these seminars, was Dick Blunt.

"Now where you went wrong there," he would tell a fledgling reporting
complete zero with a YWCA resident, "was in making her feel that you
were interested. Your line with a girl like that should be one of
charity. Pure charity. You impress on her that you’re doing her a
terrific favor. You offer to bring to her dull life romance, adventure,
tenderness."

"I couldn’t even get my hands on her," complained the reproved failure,
Herbert Banks.

"I’ve always found that type the easiest ones of all," Blunt said
indifferently. "Dull, of course."

The testiness, the self-pity, the shortness of temper and the near-riots
over stolen packages of cigarettes, were not improved after the Doctors,
having surveyed the situation thoroughly, decided that it would do no
harm to let the men of the crew go out on Liberty.

Fraternizing with natives was, of course, strictly forbidden. They were
not to drink off premises. (Nor on, for that matter.) They were exhorted
not to steal, not to engage in fights.

Still, they could walk around, take pictures of the strange pink houses
and the dazzling cities. They could watch a covey of children swim in
the municipal pools. They could look at the fountains, the so-called
"miraculous fountains of Engraham", or climb the strange, glassy
mountains. The natives, although shy of them, were most polite, and some
smiled enchantingly—especially the women.

                                  ————

This was the worst rub of all: there were women, and they were gorgeous.
A little smaller than most Earth women, with bright eyes, and high,
arched eyebrows, looking forever as if they had heard the most priceless
joke. Their faces conformed to the most rigid standards of Caucasian
beauty. Their legs, so delicate, so tapering, so fantastically small of
ankle, were breath-taking. Their clothes, which would have driven a
Parisian designer to suicide, were draped carelessly over the most
exquisite figures. True, they were a little deficient in one department,
and this was explained, before they were granted liberty, by Dr.
Flandeau. The women of Engraham, he said, did not bear children.

This announcement was not received with special gloom, for until then,
none of the crew had seen an Engrahamite woman. But Willy Lanham, a
dark-haired, skinny boy from Tennessee, asked, unhappily, "Don’t they
even go in for games or nothin’?"

Flandeau understood instantly. He shook his head sadly. "I should think
not. It has been a long time since they have observed the normal
functions. The women are mainly for decoration, although it is said that
some are also created for brains. They are a most strange people."

After this—granted these agonizing liberties, and able to see that which
was biologically unattainable—the crew became so demoralized that not
even Kosalowsky’s discovery of the works of Wilhelm Reik relieved the
deep gloom.

However, they had reckoned without the superior genius of Dick Blunt.
Blunt received Flandeau’s news as unhappily as the others, and, like the
rest, was made miserable by the sight of the glorious damozels. But he
was a reasonable man and he put his reasoning powers to work. Soon he
alone was cheerful. He went around with the absorbed, other-world look
of a physicist grappling with a problem in ionospheric mathematics
without the use of an IBM calculator. One day he went on Liberty alone.
He did not return until the fall of night, and when he came in his
elation was so immoderate that the others thought there must be bars on
Engraham after all.

"I have found the answer to our question," he said.

No one needed to ask what question. O’Connors hurried to pour Blunt a
drink.

"I have spent the day pursuing this answer logically," said Blunt. "I
have done what any thoughtful man would do. I have read up on it."

"How?" cried Henderson.

"At the library."

Blunt then described his day: finding his way to the library by means of
pantomime; and finding at last, that file of photographs—photographs of
an utterly self-explanatory nature. And these he pulled from his pocket,
for ignoring all discipline, he had stolen them.

The pictures passed from hand to hand. O’Connors passed them on to Pane,
and suddenly felt the need to open the window behind him. It was Willy
Lanham, the boy from Tennessee, who voiced those exultant words that
rose to the throats of all:

He said, "Hey! They’re made just like the Earth girls."

The conversation, at this intensely interesting point, was cut short by
the arrival of the Colonel. He alighted from the native Hop-Hop—waved
cheerily to its driver, and began coming up. The bottle and glasses
vanished, and Kosalowsky began to read aloud from a book especially
reserved for these occasions. The men maintained looks of studious
interest as the officer went through. He went up the ladder to his own
quarters, there to write in his growing volume, THE COMING OCCUPATION
AND GOVERNMENT OF ENGRAHAM. They listened until his door clicked.

The conversation was resumed in more subdued tones.

"Do you think," said Pane shakily, "They still _could_?"

"Not a question of it," Blunt said. "These pictures prove it. It’s what
you might call a lost art. Once upon a time, as with all the fortunate
parts of the galaxy, this art was known to the Engrahamites. Through
some terrific foul-up, they lost it. Probably a combination of the
science of incubation, and the reign of some ghastly square, like Queen
Victoria. Thus were the girls of Engraham deprived of the pleasures of
love."

"The men, too," said Willy. All glared at him reproachfully. To care
about the happiness of the Engrahamite men was thought not quite
patriotic.

"Gradually," Blunt went on, "they must have begun to lose interest.
Probably there was some taboo. In the end they probably all thought, oh,
to hell with it, and began serving on committees."

A long sigh went up.

"It is for us," Blunt said softly, treasuring each word, "to restore
these unhappy maidens to their original human rights.

"But it isn’t going to be easy," Blunt went on. His voice dropped even
lower. "Think what would happen if it went sour. Those Doctors would get
wind of it. We’d be stuck in the Ship for the rest of the Exploration."

There was a sober pause. Finally Banks cleared his throat and said,
"Well, how do you think it should be handled, Blunt?"

"Well, every beachhead needs an invasion," Blunt said, casually holding
out his glass. O’Connors leapt to fill it. "One guy has got to lay the
groundwork. Let him enlighten one quail. Explain things to her." He took
a long, leisurely drink, and sighed. "This quail will rush around
telling the others. Pretty soon there’ll be so many hanging around the
ship that—"

There was a general rush for cooling beverages.

"Right," someone said, when the faculty of speech was recovered.

"And necessarily," said Blunt, "this has to be the guy with the most
savvy. The one who knows the score. The one most likely to succeed.
Check?"

All knew what this was leading up to. Martin said unhappily, "Check,
Blunt, You’re our boy."

                                  ————

Blunt was scheduled to stand guard the next day, but Willy Lanham, eager
to assist the cause, volunteered to take over for him. The hours seemed
to creep by. His air was swaggering and cool when he returned, and all
gathered round with eager curiosity—all but Lanham, who had not
recovered from standing guard.

Blunt sauntered to the bar, accepted a drink, sipped it, lighted a
cigarette, and took a long, pensive drag. Finally he said reminiscently,
"What a doll!"

Pane, never a subtle man, cried in anguish, "Well, how’d you make out?"

Blunt smiled smugly. He began his recital. He was walking along the
street and he met this gorgeous creature. A full description followed
(broken by the arrival of the Colonel and two paragraphs of the DECLINE
AND FALL) making it clear that this was the dish of dishes, the most
beautiful of the beautiful, the most charming, and the most intelligent.
She allowed herself to be addressed in Blunt’s few words of Engrahamic
and, smiling ever patiently, sat with him for several hours. Their talk
took place in a secluded bower, in one of the many parks. She was
agreeable and charmed and promised to see him again. He even managed,
through terrific feats of pantomime, to impress on her the need of
secrecy in future meetings.

"That was all?" someone said, when he finished.

"For the first meeting, I think I did wonders," said Blunt. "After all,
sex hasn’t been known here since a time corresponding to our Stone Age."

Later, when the nightly poker game was beginning, Willy Lanham said,
"Why didn’t you just make a grab for her?"

"That’s the hill-billy approach," Blunt said disdainfully. "These girls
are civilized—very, very civilized. It’s important not to shock them."

                                  ————

Blunt’s next gambit was to set about learning the language. For this he
went not to Flandeau, who best knew it, but to Ankers, who was a pure
scientist in every sense of the word, and not so likely to suspect his
motives. The girl proved very cultured. She took him to art galleries,
to symphonies, and mountain climbing, for scrambling up and down the
glassy hills was a favorite Engrahamic sport. As he advanced in the
language, he learned that her name was Catataphinaria, which meant "she
will attain relative wisdom". He found that she worked for the Eleven
who, while not rulers, offered general suggestions which the populace
more or less followed.

Although his slow progress inevitably bored the crew, still, it offered
that one precious ray of hope, and they became so tractable that even
the Doctors noticed it. They laid it to the secret ingredient that Dr.
Frank had introduced into the drinking water.

The summer wore on, becoming hotter each day. By the end of the second
month of his courtship, Blunt began to speak to her of love.

She laughed. She said that she had little curiosity on the subject,
although it was now and then mentioned by the students of antiquity.
Assured that it was pleasurable, she said that she heard that barbarians
also enjoyed murdering people and making them butts of jokes.

Willy Lanham said, "Don’t listen to what a girl _says_. Just make a grab
for her."

This suggestion was laughed to scorn.

Weeks passed, the summer began to wane. Tempers again began to shorten.
Flandeau said to Frank, "The men are worse again."

"Yes, perhaps we should increase the dosage."

The fruits for the Joy-Juicer grew thin on the silvery bushes, and men
ranged far and wide, putting in supplies for the winter.

                                  ————

One night, when Blunt had won at poker, all the men lay in their bunks,
too dispirited to drink, to shoot craps, almost too miserable even for
speech. Blunt again began talking of Catataphinaria. Drowsily Lanham
said, "I think you’re going at it the wrong way, Dick. Try some real
rough stuff. You know—kiss her. She might like it."

Before Blunt could defend his strategy, Kosalowsky sat up in his bunk.
"Yes, for cripes sake," he said, "Move in for the kill. Or shut up about
it. You’re driving us all nuts."

"Would you like to try?" Blunt suggested softly.

"Sure I’ll try," Kosalowsky said. He turned on the light over his bunk.
"Give me a crack at her. I could have managed it weeks ago. All you’ve
done is talk to the quail."

"Yah, Dick, maybe you’re using the wrong approach on this one,"
O’Connors suggested.

"It’s the damn places you take her," Kosalowsky said. "Art galleries.
Anybody ever seduce a girl in an art gallery? Symphonies. Popping around
in her damn Hop-Hop. Can’t you ever get her alone?"

"She lives with ten other girls," Blunt said sulkily. "They’re all home
all the time."

"Well, bring her here, then," Pane suggested. "We’ll all take a powder."

"Where?"

There was no answer. They could not all, by day, desert the ship, and it
was getting too chilly for the crew to hide in adjacent shrubbery. "We
could put up a wall," Pane said suddenly, "between the bunks and the
bar."

"With what?"

"I know," Banks said eagerly, "where there’s a whole pile of stuff. It’s
nice thin metal, just lying there getting rusty."

"I think you’re premature—"

"Premature!" Kosalowsky shouted. "Six months you’ve been chasing this
tomato. You call that premature?"

"Only four by Engrahamic time," Blunt said, insulted.

"Listen," Kosalowsky said, "that wall goes up tomorrow. And you’re
smuggling her in tomorrow night. Or else," he said, glaring at Blunt,
"after that it’s every man for himself. Check?"

Blunt, only slightly seen in the light from Kosalowsky’s bunk, was white
with rage. "All right, guys," he said stonily. "I’ve been trying to do
right by this frail. Nothing abrupt or hillbilly. Nothing to hurt her
delicate feelings or her fine mind. But if this is how you want
it—Okay!"

                                  ————

The next day the wall went up.

Hardly a word was said as it was hammered in place. Once up, the place
was G. I.’d thoroughly. The ash trays were washed, the floor vacuumed,
and the lights adjusted to achieve the most tellingly seductive effect.
Blunt went out at two, thin-lipped and silent.

"The jerk," Kosalowsky said, "I think he’s a lot of hot air. That’s what
_I_ think."

The Colonel came in at nightfall and asked about the wall. They told him
that it was to cut off the recreation section from the sleeping
quarters, for the protection of those who wanted more sleep to prepare
for the grueling winter watches.

"Very good idea men," the Colonel said, and went upstairs to write
another chapter in his book.

At nine the men disappeared into their bunks. O’Connors won the
responsible job of peering through the narrow slit in the wall. Behind
him could be heard the labored breathing of twenty-seven distraught men.
One man snored. "Wake up, you stupid ass," Pane told Lanham. "You’ll
wreck the show."

At last the door opened and Blunt came in—with the girl.

She was breath-taking. She wore, O’Connors reported, a dress cut to
here—and her hair was piled high on her patrician head. Blunt had not
lied. She was even prettier than the usual run of Engraham girls.

"He’s offering her a drink," O’Connors whispered.

"She take it?"

"No—she’s sitting at the bar. He’s having one, though. He’s turning on
the hi-fi."

He did not have to tell them, since all could hear the soft music. They
had selected a program of melodies considered sure-fire.

"He’s talking to her—putting his arm around her waist. Oh-oh. She
knocked it off. She’s laughing, though."

In the silence they all heard her laugh. Several men moved
uncomfortably. "He’s leading her toward the couch—oh-oh—she stopped to
look at the radar screen."

It was the auxiliary radar, not the important one in the control room.
"What’s he doing?"

"Telling her—he’s edging her to the couch again—now she’s asking about
the Bassett Blaster. They’re fooling around with the gun. He’s showing
her how it works—trying to put his hands—!"

This last was lost, for there was a sudden, resounding blast. Their
bunks, the entire ship, trembled.

The meaning was clear to all. They flattened to their bunks, and waited
tensely. They heard a sound, the sound of a foot kicking a body. A hand
scratched tentatively along the wall.

No one moved. "She killed him." O’Connors voice was no more than a
slight whisper. "Lay low—lay low."’

Then a woman’s voice said, in perfect English, "All right, you men. Come
out of there."

The door was found and flung open. Catataphinaria stood in the dim
light—still holding the Blaster. She said again, more sharply, "I said,
Come out of there!"

Clumsily, they came down from their bunks.

"Now," she said, as she had them all against the wall, "call down the
others."

But this was unnecessary, for the Doctors and the Colonel were already
descending the ladder. They turned quite white at the sight of her.
Wordlessly, she indicated that they were to join the others. The Doctors
found it harder to adjust to a purely military sort of emergency. Ankers
asked clearly, "What on earth is this nonsense?"

"No nonsense," the girl said. "Just do as I say. First, surrender all
your papers."

"Our papers?"

"Your research. Your conclusions. Everything."

Henderson said, "I’ll go get it, Ma’am."

"I would also like the Colonel’s amusing work on the coming occupation."

"I know where it is, sir," Martin said swiftly. "I’ll get it."

The Colonel’s expression was stony. He nodded to Martin to get it, and
it occurred to him that the girl was one of those whom he had personally
selected as the most promising for the puppet governments. But when he
asked about her identity, she cut him off without a word.

"Then, may I ask where you learned such flawless English?"

"All of us know English," she said. "It is a very stupid language."

Martin and Henderson returned with the papers. Gingerly they approached
her, handed the papers to her, and darted back to their places in the
line. She placed the stack on the bar, leafed through it, all the while
keeping them covered with the Blaster, and remarked on finishing, "It is
exactly what one would expect barbarians to find interesting."

Flandeau, however, remained a scientist to the last.

"We find ourselves unhappily deceived," he said. "We were certain—that
you were utterly without defenses. We were told that you did not know
_how_ to lie, cheat, dissemble, or fight."

"Only not with each other." she said. "It was, so to speak, a lost art."
She glanced at Blunt. Several men squirmed. "But it is one that we have
regained," she said.

"And what will you do with us?" Flandeau asked.

"We have decided to let you go," she said. "Now that we possess this
weapon,"—she brandished the Blaster—"which we can copy, we think we can
prevent more Explorations. At least this is the opinion of the Eleven.
So I am instructed to let you leave—at once, of course."

"You are most charming," said Flandeau.

"At once," she repeated.

"Yes, of course. Men! Prepare for blastoff!"

                                  ————

The way back was tedious—the floating around, the boredom, the unending
blackness of space—but at least it was going home. After the first weeks
of space-sickness, things returned to near normal, and the Doctors
conferred with the Colonel. It was decided that the best report should
be that Engraham was uninviting, bleak, and of no interest to Earthmen.
The reputations of all were at stake (the doctors found themselves,
stripped of their papers, unable to recollect enough, and the Colonel
desperately feared a court-martial) and the crew was thus advised. All
agreed to keep their mouths shut. Thus their honorable discharges,
medals, and life-time pensions would be safe.

So, with all this decided, and Earth only a few months away, relative
cheerfulness reigned. Only Willy Lanham continued to mope.

"What’s biting you?" Kosalowsky asked, one day as they lay strapped in
adjacent bunks. "Your face is as long as this ship."

"I just feel bad," Willy said. "I can feel bad if I want to, can’t I?"

"What the hell, we’ll soon be home. We can really raise some hell,
then."

"I miss my girl," Willy blurted out.

"You’ll see her pretty soon."

"I mean my girl on Engraham."

It happened that just then several other men, bored with lying still,
were floating past. They gripped the edges of Willy’s bunk.

"You mean you had," Kosalowsky said cunningly, "a girl on Engraham?"

"Sure I did," said Willy defensively. "Didn’t all you guys?"

More and more men joined the knot of bodies around Willy’s bunk. The
atmosphere became distinctly menacing.

"You mean you didn’t?" Willy said. "You mean it wasn’t a gag we were
pulling on Blunt?"

They were silent. One pair of floating hands neared Willy’s throat.

"Honest," he said. "I didn’t think you were that dumb. I thought you
were just letting Blunt make an ass of himself. I thought that—well, it
was so easy. I even told Dick a couple of times. You just had to make a
grab for ’em."

Pane suddenly let out a harsh sound, like the cry of a wounded bull.

"So who was this frail?" Kosalowsky asked heavily.

"Yeah!" echoed the others.

"Well, she was just a frail, I guess," Willy said. "I used to see her
around the ship. On guard duty. I used to see her all the time. What the
hell," he said, "You think I’m dumb or something? Why’d you think I was
willing to stand guard all the time?"


                                 *END*



 _Transcribers note_: This etext was produced from If Worlds of Science
 Fiction February 1958. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence
        that the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.

